EV3 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
EV3.1 Grounding
EV3.1.1 TS Enclosures, see EV1.1.2, must consist of either:
 A grounded solid layer made of at least 0.5 mm thick electrically conductive material, aluminium or better, see EV3.1.3, or
 Be fully made from electrically insulating materials having an isolation resistance of at least 2 MΩ, measured with a voltage of 500 V. The enclosure must be rigid and must prevent possible mechanical penetrations. Protruding electrically conductive parts, such as fasteners or connectors, must follow EV3.1.2.
EV3.1.2 Electrically conductive seat, driver harness, and firewall mounting points as well as the aluminium layer of the TS firewall, see T4.8, and the LVS ground measuring point, see EV4.7.8, must be grounded, see EV3.1.3.
EV3.1.3 An electrically conductive part is grounded if its resistance to LVS ground is below 100mΩ, measured with a current of 1 A, and the grounding wire is able to continuously carry at least 10 % of the TS accumulator main fuse current rating.
EV3.1.4 Parts of the vehicle which may become electrically conductive (e.g. completely coated metal parts, carbon fibre parts, etc.) within 100mm of any TS component must have a resistance below 100Ω to LVS ground.
EV3.1.5 The rotating part of the wheels does not need to be grounded.
EV3.2 Overcurrent Protection
EV3.2.1 All electrical systems must have appropriate overcurrent protection.
EV3.2.2 The continuous current rating of the overcurrent protection must not be greater than the continuous current rating of any electrical component, for example wire, busbar or other conductor that it protects. i.e. if multiple pins of a connector are used to carry currents in parallel, each pin must be appropriately protected.
EV3.2.3 All fuses must have an interrupt current rating which is higher than the theoretical short circuit current of the system that it protects.
EV3.2.4 All overcurrent protection devices must be rated for the highest voltage in the systems they protect. All devices used must be rated for DC.
EV3.2.5 All overcurrent protection devices that are part of the TS must not rely on programmable logic. The overcurrent protection function of unmodified commercially available motor controllers/inverters for the motor outputs may rely on programmable logic.
EV3.2.6 The overcurrent protection must be designed for the expected surrounding temperature range but at least for 0°C to 85 °C
EV3.2.7 The TS high current path through the accumulator(s) must be fused.

EV4 TRACTIVE SYSTEM
EV4.1 General Requirements
EV4.1.1 The maximum permitted voltage that may occur between any two electrical connections is 600VDC and for motor controller/inverters and Accumulator Management System (AMS) internal low power control signals 630 VDC.
EV4.1.2 All components in the TS must be rated for the maximum TS voltage. The TS area of a PCB, see EV4.3.6, is considered as one component. Every input connected to the TS must be rated to the maximum TS voltage.
EV4.1.3 All components must be rated for the maximum possible temperature that may occur during use.
EV4.1.4 Fans with >50W power must not be connected to the TS.
EV4.2 Tractive System Enclosures
EV4.2.1 Every housing or enclosure containing parts of the TS system, must be labelled with (a) reasonably sized sticker(s) according to “ISO 7010-W012” (triangle with black lightning bolt on yellow background). The sticker must also contain the text “High Voltage” if the voltage is more than 60VDC or 25VAC.
EV4.3 Separation of Traction System and Grounded Low Voltage System
EV4.3.1 The entire TS and LVS must be galvanically isolated, see EV1.2.1 and IN4.1.1.
EV4.3.2 All connections from a TS component to external devices, such as laptops must include galvanic isolation, see EV1.2.1.
EV4.3.3 TS and LVS circuits must be physically segregated such that they are not running through the same conduit or connector, except for interlock circuit connections.
EV4.3.4 Where both TS and LVS are present within an TS enclosure, they must be separated by barriers made of moisture-resistant insulating materials or maintain 20 mm spacing through air, or over a surface.
EV4.3.5 Components and cables capable of movement must be positively restrained to maintain spacing.
EV4.3.6 If TS and LVS are on the same PCB, they must be on separate well defined areas of the board, meeting the spacing requirements in Table 4, each area clearly marked with “TS” or “LV”. The outline of the area required for spacing must be marked.
Grooves and cut-outs must have a minimum width of 1.5 mm to influence the creepage path. “Conformal coating” refers to a coating insulator on a PCB. Solder resist is not a coating.
Voltage Clearance Distance Creepage Distance
General Conformal Coating
0VDC to 50VDC 1.0mm 4mm 1.0mm
50VDC to 150VDC 1.0mm 5mm 1.0mm
150VDC to 300VDC 1.5mm 10mm 2.0mm
300VDC to 600VDC 3.0mm 20mm 4.0mm
Table 4: Spacing required between TS and LV
EV4.3.7 Teams must be prepared to demonstrate spacing on team-built equipment. For inaccessible circuitry, spare boards must be available. These do not have to be fully assembled.
EV4.4 Positioning of Tractive System Parts
EV4.4.1 With the exception of what is permitted according to EV4.4.4, all parts belonging to the TS including cables and wiring must be located within the rollover protection envelope, see T1.1.16. “Part” is the whole device such as the complete HVD.
EV4.4.2 Any part of the TS that is less than 350 mm above the ground, except items permitted by
EV4.4.3, must be protected from impacts according to T3.15 and must follow T3.16 when having bolted attachments.
EV4.4.3 TS wiring in front of the front roll hoop may alternatively be shielded by the front bulkhead support structure according to T3.14.
EV4.4.4 Outboard wheel motors are allowed only if:
 Interlocks are routed such that the shutdown circuit, see EV6.1, is opened before the TS wiring or its connection fails, or in the event of a suspension failure
 TS wiring is not able to reach the cockpit opening or the driver regardless of where it breaks
 Wiring outside of the rollover protection envelope, see T1.1.16, is minimum length.
 Wiring outside of an impact structure or front bulkhead support structure, see EV4.4.2, is minimum length.
 Minimum length is the shortest distance plus extra wiring required for suspension / steering travel and bend radii.
EV4.4.5 In side or front view any part of the TS must not project below the lower surface of the chassis.
EV4.4.6 Additional regulations apply for TS accumulators, see EV5.5.
EV4.5 Tractive System Insulation, Wiring and Conduit
EV4.5.1 All live parts of the TS must be protected from being touched. This must include team members working on or inside the vehicle. This is tested with a 100mm long, 6mm diameter insulated test probe when the TS enclosures are in place.
EV4.5.2 Insulation material that is rated for the maximum TS voltage must be used. Using only insulating tape or rubber-like paint for insulation is prohibited.
EV4.5.3 The temperature rating for TS wiring, connections and insulation must be appropriate for the expected surrounding temperatures but at least 85 °C.
EV4.5.4 TS components and containers must be protected from moisture in the form of rain or puddles to a minimum of IPX2, see IN9.
EV4.5.5 It must be possible to clearly assign and prove wire gauge, temperature rating and insulation voltage to each used wire.
EV4.5.6 All TS wiring must be completed to professional standards with appropriately sized conductors and terminals and with adequate strain relief and protection from loosening due to vibration etc.
EV4.5.7 TS wiring must be located out of the way of possible snagging or damage.
EV4.5.8 All TS wiring that runs outside of TS enclosures must
 Be enclosed in separate orange non-conductive conduit or use an orange shielded cable. The conduit must be securely anchored to the vehicle, but not to wire, at least at each end,
 Be securely anchored at least at each end so that it can withstand a force of 200N without straining the cable end crimp. Body work is not sufficient to meet this enclosure requirement.
EV4.5.9 Any shielded cable must have the shield grounded.
EV4.5.10 Every TS connector outside of a housing must include a pilot contact/interlock line which is part of the shutdown circuit. Housings only used to avoid interlocks are prohibited.
EV4.5.11 All TS connections must be designed so that they use intentional current paths through conductors such as copper or aluminium and should not rely on steel bolts to be the primary conductor.
EV4.5.12 All TS connections must not include compressible material such as plastic in the stack-up or as a fastener. FR-4 is allowed.
NOTE: This rule has been reworked in the Formula Student Germany 2025 Rules, if you plan to compete at other events, you must ensure you are compliant with that rule.
EV4.5.13 TS connectors outside of TS enclosures must be designed in a way, that the TS cannot be activated, see EV4.11, if connected in any way other than the design intent configuration.
EV4.5.14 All electrical connections, including bolts, nuts and other fasteners, in the high current path of the TS must be secured from unintentional loosening by the use of positive locking mechanisms that are suitable for high temperatures, see T10.2. Components, e.g. inverters, certified for automotive use might be allowed without positive locking feature, if connections are completed as recommended by the manufacturers datasheet and no positive locking is possible. The team must be able to demonstrate that they have assessed the risk of loosening of these connections and describe this and the control methods applied in their ESF.
EV4.5.15 Teams must be prepared to demonstrate positive locking. For inaccessible connections, appropriate photographs must be available.
EV4.5.16 Soldered connections in the high current path are only allowed if all of the following are true:
 Connections on PCBs,
 The connected devices are not cells or wires,
 The devices are additionally mechanically secured against loosening.
EV4.6 Energy Meter
EV4.6.1 A calibrated Energy Meter will be provided by the officials and must be inserted during competition. The Energy Meter measures TS voltage and TS current.
EV4.6.2 The Datalogger module of the Energy Meter must be in an easily accessible location so that it is possible for the officials to check its operation and insert/remove the memory stick at any time.
EV4.6.3 The Energy Meter must not be installed within the TSAC.
EV4.6.4 All current supplying the TS must run through the Energy Meter. The Energy Meter must be inserted in the negative TS supply between the most negative AIR(s) and the inverters.
EV4.6.5 The TS voltage sense connection of the Energy Meter must be directly connected, see
T1.3.1, to the most positive AIR(s) on vehicle side.
EV4.6.6 The Energy Meter LV connection must be supplied from the LVMS. The Energy Meter requires a stable 12V supply, so regulators or voltage converters are permitted if necessary. There should be no switching or relays between the LV source and the Energy Meter.
EV4.6.7 The specification of the Energy Meter will be available on the Formula Student website.
EV4.7 Tractive System Measuring point
EV4.7.1 Two TSMPs must be installed directly next to the master switches, see EV6.2.
EV4.7.2 The TSMPs must be directly connected, see T1.3.1, to the intermediate circuit capacitors
even if the HVD has been opened or the TS accumulator is disconnected.
EV4.7.3 4mm shrouded banana jacks of rated for 1000 V CAT III or better must be used.
EV4.7.4 The TSMPs must be marked “TS+” and “TS-” and exclusively mounted on orange back- ground.
EV4.7.5 The TSMPs must be protected by a non-conductive housing that can be opened without tools. The cover must always be mechanically linked to the vehicle.
EV4.7.6 Each TSMP must be secured with a current limiting resistor according to Table 5, below. Fusing of the TSMPs is prohibited. The resistors power rating must be chosen such that they are able to continuously carry the current if both TSMPs are short circuited. Maximum TS Voltage Resistor Value
Umax <200 VDC 5kΩ
200 VDC <Umax ≤400 VDC 10kΩ
400 VDC <Umax ≤600 VDC 15kΩ
Table 5: TSMP Resistor requirements
EV4.7.7 All electrical connections needed for TSMP, including bolts, nuts and other fasteners, must be secured from unintentional loosening by the use of positive locking mechanisms. Bolted connections must follow T10.2, soldered connections EV4.5.16
EV4.7.8 Next to the TSMPs, a LVS ground measuring point must be installed. A 4mm black shrouded banana jack must be connected to LVS ground and must be marked “GND”.
EV4.8 High Voltage Disconnect
EV4.8.1 It must be possible to disconnect at least one pole of the TS accumulator by quickly removing an unobstructed and directly accessible element, fuse or connector. It must be possible to disconnect the HVD without removing any bodywork. The HVD must be above
350mm from the ground and easily visible when standing behind the vehicle. Remote actuation of the HVD through a long handle, rope or wire is not permitted.
EV4.8.2 An untrained person must be able to remove the HVD within 10s when the vehicle is in ready-to-race condition.
EV4.8.3 A dummy connector or similar may be required to restore the system’s isolation, see
EV4.5. The dummy connector must be green and clearly identifiable to an observer when in use. It must be attached to the push bar, see T1.3.1, if not in use.
EV4.8.4 The HVD must be clearly marked with “HVD”.
EV4.8.5 No tools must be necessary to open the HVD. An interlock is required, see EV4.5.10.
EV4.9 Discharge Circuit
EV4.9.1 If a discharge circuit is required to meet EV6.1.5, it must be designed to handle the maximum TS voltage permanently. After three subsequent discharges within 15s in total, the discharge time specified in
EV6.1.5 may be exceeded. Full discharging functionality must be given after a reasonable time with a deactivated discharge circuit.
EV4.9.2 The discharge circuit must be wired in a way that it is always active whenever the shutdown circuit is open. Furthermore, the discharge circuit must be fail-safe such that it still discharges the intermediate circuit capacitors if the HVD has been opened or the TS accumulator is disconnected.
EV4.9.3 Fusing of the main current discharge path is prohibited.
EV4.10 Tractive System Active Light
EV4.10.1 The vehicle must include a single TSAL that must indicate the TS status. The TSAL must not perform any other functions. A TSAL with multiple LEDs in one housing is allowed.
EV4.10.2 The TSAL itself must have a red light, flashing continuously with a frequency between 2Hz and 5Hz and a duty cycle of 50%, active whenever the LVS is active and for at least 15 minutes after it is switched off (see Ev4.10.16) and the voltage across any DC-link capacitor exceeds the lower of either:
 60VDC or 50VACRMS,
 Half the nominal TS voltage.
EV4.10.3 The TSAL itself must have a green light, continuously on, active whenever the LVS is active and for at least 15 minutes after it is switched off (see EV4.10.16) and ALL of the following conditions are true:
 All AIRs are opened.
 The pre-charge relay, see EV5.7.2, is opened.
 The voltage at the vehicle side of the AIRs inside the TSAC does not exceed 60VDC or 50VACRMS.
EV4.10.4 The voltage detection for the TSAL must be performed inside the respective TS enclosure.
EV4.10.5 The described states of the relays (opened/closed) are the actual mechanical states. The mechanical state can differ from the intentional state, i.e. if a relay is stuck. Any circuitry detecting the mechanical state must meet EV5.6.2.
EV4.10.6 The voltage detection circuit of the red light and the relay state and voltage detection circuit of the green light must be independent. Any plausibility check between both lights is not allowed. A TSAL state with both lights simultaneously active might occur and must not be prevented.
EV4.10.7 The TSAL must:
 Be located lower than the highest point of the main hoop and including the mounting within the rollover protection envelope, see T1.1.16.
 Be no lower than 75mm from the highest point of the main hoop.
 Not be able to contact the driver’s helmet in any circumstances. EV4.10.8 The entire illuminated surface of the TSAL must be clearly visible:
 Except for angles less than 10° on each side which are blocked by the main hoop.
 From a point 1.60m vertically from ground level, within 3m horizontal radius from the TSAL.
 In direct sunlight.
EV4.10.9 The TSAL and all required circuitry must be hard-wired electronics. Software control is not permitted.
EV4.10.10 A green indicator light in the cockpit must illuminate if the TSAL green light is on, see
EV4.10.3. It must be clearly marked “TS off”, and the light must be easily visible even in bright sunlight.
EV4.10.11 Signals influencing the TSAL and the indicator according to EV4.10.10 are SCS, see T11.9. The individual safe state of each of the TSAL lights is off. The TSAL has an active indication of the absence of failures (continuous green illumination) and thus the red light must not be illuminated for a visible check, see T11.9.6.
EV4.10.12 The TSAL’s red light voltage detection circuit, see EV4.10.2, does not need to detect an open circuit, as required by T11.9. A plausibility check must not be implemented.
EV4.10.13 Any implausibility in the circuit detecting the AIR and pre-charge relay states (see
EV4.10.3) must result in the TSAL’s green light being extinguished. This is exempt from the requirement of T11.9.2.
EV4.10.14 Any implausibility between the AIR or pre-charge relay states and the expected voltage for these states (see EV4.10.3) must result in the TSAL’s green light being extinguished.
This is exempt from the requirement of T11.9.2.
EV4.10.15 The latching required by EV4.10.13 and EV4.10.14 must not be triggered during normal operation conditions and must only be reset by power cycling the LVS.
EV4.10.16 The TSAL power supply must:
 Comply with T11.7 and be capable of powering the TSAL for at least 15 minutes after the LVS has been switched off. It is permissible for the TSAL to be powered by the LVS whenever this is switched on.
 Not be used to power any other systems,
 Comply with all requirements of T11.1 but must not be de-activated by opening the LVMS (see T11.3).
EV4.10.17 It is permissible for the ESO to deactivate the TSAL when the LVS is switched off and if the TS is confirmed to be deactivated.
 It must not be possible to activate the TS if the TSAL is in a deactivated state,
 The driver must not be able to deactivate the TSAL.
EV4.11 Activating the Tractive System
EV4.11.1 The TS is active if any of the AIRs or the pre-charge relay are closed.
EV4.11.2 The driver must be able to activate and deactivate the TS from within the cockpit without the assistance of any other person.
EV4.11.3 [DV ONLY] The ASR must be able to activate the TS from outside the vehicle with an external TS activation button in proximity to the TSMS if and only if the ASMS is in “On” position.
EV4.11.4 Closing the shutdown circuit by any part defined in EV6.1.2 must not (re-)activate the TS. Additional action must be required.
EV4.11.5 [DV ONLY] The AS must not be able to (re-)activate the TS.
EV4.11.6 The vehicle is ready-to-drive as soon as the motor(s) will respond to the input of the APPS.
EV4.11.7 After the TS has been activated, additional actions must be required by the driver to set the vehicle to ready-to-drive mode (e.g. pressing a dedicated start button). The transition to ready-to-drive mode must only be possible during the actuation of the mechanical brakes and a simultaneous dedicated additional action.
EV4.11.8 The ready-to-drive mode must be left immediately when the shutdown circuit is opened.
EV4.12 Ready-To-Drive Sound
EV4.12.1 The vehicle must make a characteristic sound, continuously for at least one second and a maximum of three seconds while entering ready-to-drive mode.
EV4.12.2 The sound level must be a minimum of 90dB(A), fast weighting. The sound level will be measured with a free-field microphone placed free from obstructions in a radius of 2m around the vehicle.
EV4.12.3 The sound must be easily recognisable. No animal voices, parts of songs or sounds that could be interpreted as offensive are permissible.
EV4.12.4 The vehicle must not make any other sounds similar to the ready-to-drive sound.
EV5 TRACTIVE SYSTEM ENERGY STORAGE
EV5.1 Definitions
EV5.1.1 Cell – a battery cell or super-capacitor.
EV5.1.2 Cell Energy – the maximum cell voltage times the nominal capacity of the used cell.
EV5.1.3 TS Accumulator – all cells that store the electrical energy to be used by the TS as a whole.
EV5.1.4 Tractive System Accumulator Container (TSAC) – the container itself, which contains the TS accumulator.
EV5.1.5 TS Accumulator Segments – sub-divisions of the TS accumulator.
EV5.2 Allowed Tractive System Cells
EV5.2.1 All types of cells except molten salt and thermal batteries are allowed.
EV5.2.2 Fuel cells are prohibited.
EV5.3 Tractive System Energy Storage – General Requirements
EV5.3.1 All cells that store the TS energy must be enclosed in a TSAC.
EV5.3.2 Each TS accumulator segment must not exceed:
 a maximum voltage of 120 VDC,
 a maximum energy of 6 MJ, see EV5.1.2,
 a maximum mass of 12kg.
EV5.3.3 If spare TS accumulators are used, they must be of the same size, weight and type as those that are replaced.
EV5.3.4 Spare cells must be stored in an electrically insulated container made of fire-retardant material, see T1.2.1. The container must be labelled according to EV5.3.8.
EV5.3.5 Spare accumulators and spare cells should be presented at technical inspection.
EV5.3.6 It must be possible to open the TSAC for technical inspection.
EV5.3.7 Each TSAC must be removable from the vehicle while still remaining rules compliant without the need to install extra components. A dummy connector or similar may be used to restore the system’s isolation, see EV4.5.
EV5.3.8 The vehicle number, the university name and the ESO phone number(s) must be displayed and written in Roman Sans-Serif characters of at least 20mm high on the lid of each TSAC. The characters must be clearly visible and placed on a high contrast background.
EV5.3.9 All TS Accumulators using chemistries other than lead acid must be: (a) Directly accessible with a fire extinguisher nozzle of 35mm diameter x 150mm long, without removing body panels and with the driver seated normally in the vehicle. Covers which can be easily "punched through" are acceptable. Any such cover or access location must be identified using the appropriate symbol below and be clearly visible to marshals approaching the car.
Figure 27: Fire Port marking
If the TS Accumulator(s) is positioned greater than 50mm inboard of the access location, then a tube of at least 35mm diameter must be present to direct the discharge from the extinguisher towards the TS Accumulator(s). The tube must be no more than 750mm in length. Any access tube must be separated from the driver by a firewall as specified in T4.8. (b) Identified with the symbol below (minimum height 75mm and showing the appropriate battery chemistry) on each side of the car AND adjacent to any labels required by EV5.3.9(a).
Figure 28: Battery Chemistry marking
EV5.4 Tractive System Energy Storage – Electrical Configuration
EV5.4.1 Every TSAC must contain at least one fuse and at least two AIRs, see EV5.6 and EV3.2.7.
EV5.4.2 LVS must not be included in the TSAC except where inherently required. Exceptions include the AIRs, TS DC/DC converters, the Accumulator Management System (AMS), the Insulation Monitoring Device (IMD), parts of the TSAL and cooling fans.
EV5.4.3 Maintenance plugs must allow electrical separation of all TS accumulator segments, see
EV5.3.2. The separation must affect both poles of all segments including first and last segment.
EV5.4.4 Maintenance plugs must:
 Not require tools to separate the TS accumulator segments,
 Be non-conductive on surfaces that do not provide any electrical connection,
 Be designed in a way, that it is physically impossible to electrically connect them in any way other than the design intent configuration,
 Be designed such that it is clearly visible whether the connection is open or closed. Electrically controlled switches must not be used.
EV5.4.5 Each TS accumulator segment must be electrically insulated by the use of suitable rigid and fire retardant, see T1.2.1, material between the segments and on top of the segment to prevent arc flashes caused by inter-segment contact or by parts/tools accidentally falling into the TSAC during maintenance.
EV5.4.6 Every wire used in an TSAC, regardless of whether it is part of the LVS or TS, must be follow EV4.5.2, EV4.5.3 and EV4.5.5.
EV5.4.7 Each TSAC must have a prominent indicator, a voltmeter or a red LED visible even in bright sunlight that will illuminate continuously whenever a voltage greater than 60 VDC or half the nominal TS voltage, whichever is lower, is present at the vehicle side of the AIRs.
EV5.4.8 The indicator must be clearly visible while disconnecting the TSAC from the vehicles. The indicator must be clearly marked with “Voltage Indicator”
EV5.4.9 The indicator must be hard-wired electronics without software control, directly and only supplied by the TS from the vehicle side of the AIRs, and always working, even if the accumulator is disconnected from the LVS or removed from the vehicle.
EV5.5 Tractive System Energy Storage – Mechanical Configuration
EV5.5.1 All TSACs must lie within and be attached to the Primary Structure, or any structure fixed to the Primary Structure, which meet the minimum specification for impact structures.
EV5.5.2 All TSACs must be protected from impacts, see T3.15.2 and be no higher than their attendant impact structure.
EV5.5.3 All TSAC materials and mounts must be fire retardant, see T1.2.1. All calculations must be conducted for an ambient temperature of 60°C except for metallic materials and continuous fibre-reinforced laminates. Where materials are used within the TSAC which do not meet the requirements of T1.2.1 the team must be able to justify why they were used in preference to a fire-retardant material.
EV5.5.4 The design of the TSAC and its contents, calculations and/or tests must be documented in the SES. This includes materials used, drawings, images, fastener locations, segment weight, cell and segment position and any proof of equivalence.
EV5.5.5 The TSAC(s) must be constructed of steel or aluminium. With the following requirements:
 The floor of the TSAC must be at least 1 .25mm thick if made from steel or 3 .2mm ifmade from aluminium,
 The internal and external vertical walls, covers and lids must be at least 0 .9mm thick if made from steel or 2 .3mm if made from aluminium. Alternative materials are allowed with proof of equivalency per T3.3 or for composite materials per EV5.5.6. When alternative materials are used, test samples must be presented at technical inspection.
EV5.5.6 Composite TSAC(s) must satisfy the following requirements:
 Data obtained from the laminate perimeter shear strength test and three point bending test, see T3.5, should be used to prove adequate strength is provided,
 Each attachment point requires steel backing plates with a minimum thickness of 2mm. Alternate materials may be used for backing plates if equivalency is approved,
EV5.5.7 The floor and walls of the TSAC must be joined by welds, bonding and/or fasteners.
 Fastened connections between the floor and any vertical wall of each section must have at least 2 fasteners,
 Fastened connections between internal vertical walls and external vertical walls must be located in the top half of the internal vertical wall,
 Sections containing 8kg or less must have a minimum of 2 fasteners connecting any two vertical walls,
 Sections containing between 8kg and 12kg must have a minimum of 3 fasteners connecting any two vertical walls.
EV5.5.8 The TSAC must include electrically insulating internal vertical walls with a minimum of 75% of the height of the external vertical walls, which divide the TSAC into section of a maximum of 12kg.
NOTE: This is less restrictive than the Formula Student Germany 2025 Rules, if you plan to compete at other events the internal walls must extend up to the lid.
EV5.5.9 The accumulator segments, see EV5.3.2, must be separated by a rigid, electrically insulating and fire-retardant barrier, see T1.2.1.
EV5.5.10 The TSAC and the mounting of the TSAC to the chassis, each segment to the TSAC and each cell within a segment must be designed to withstand the accelerations according to T9.2.
All TSAC attachment points must follow EV5.5.15. TSAC(s) made of materials as stated in
EV5.5.5 or EV5.5.6 may need further reinforcement in order to comply with this rule.
EV5.5.11 Tabs of pouch cells must not carry mechanical loads and must not press into the pouch. Pouch cells must only carry mechanical loads on the large surface areas. The load must be distributed over at least 80% of each surface carrying the load.
EV5.5.12 Friction based cell mounting requires physical testing to prove the cells are retained when subjected to the required loads. Mechanically representative test cells or mock-up cells are permissible for these tests.
EV5.5.13 All fasteners used within or to mount the TSAC must comply with T10. Fasteners within the TSAC used for non-structural TSAC parts (e.g. PCBs etc.) do not have to follow T10 if the fasteners are made of electrically non-conductive material or other than stated in T10.1.2, may be of any diameter. Non-structural fasteners used to mount tabs of pouch cells must comply with T10 with the exception of T10.1.2.
EV5.5.14 The AIRs and the main fuse, see EV3.2.7, must be separated with an electrically insulated and fire-retardant material, see T1.2.1, from the cells within the TSAC (see EV5.1.3). Air is not considered to be a suitable insulation material in this case.
EV5.5.15 The TSAC must be attached to the chassis by a minimum of two mounts. Any brackets used to mount the TSAC must be made of steel 1 .6mm thick or aluminium 4mm thick and must have gussets to carry bending loads.
EV5.5.16 Holes, both internal and external, in the TSAC are only allowed for the wiring-harness, ventilation, cooling or fasteners. Holes may extend to the edge of a wall. The TSAC must still be compliant with all other rules, especially the ones concerning its structural requirements. External holes must be sealed according to EV4.5. The total cutout area must be below 25% of the area of the respective single wall.
EV5.5.17 External openings for cooling and connected cooling ducts must not point towards the driver, or if the accumulator is out of the car, towards the operator of the accumulator hand cart even though there is a firewall, see T4.8, in between. Ducts and their mounting must be fire retardant, see T1.2.1, and properly sealed.
EV5.5.18 A sticker according to “ISO 7010-W012” (triangle with black lightning bolt on yellow background) with triangle side length of at least 100mm and the text “Always Energized” must be applied on every TSAC. The sticker must also contain the text “High Voltage” if the voltage is more than 60VDC or 25VAC.
EV5.5.19 Every TSAC must be able to vent gas to prevent high-pressure in the TSAC.
EV5.5.20 Where there are liquid cooling elements within the accumulator container, teams must demonstrate how they have been designed, manufactured and tested to ensure that cooling liquid cannot leak into the accumulator.
EV5.6 Accumulator Isolation Relays
EV5.6.1 At least two AIRs must be fitted inside each TSAC.
EV5.6.2 The AIRs must open both poles of the TS accumulator. If the AIRs are open, no TS voltage may be present outside of the TSAC and the vehicle side of the AIRs must be galvanically isolated from the accumulator side, see EV1.2.1.
EV5.6.3 The AIRs must be mechanical relays of a “normally open” type. Solid-state relays are prohibited.
EV5.7 Pre-Charge Circuit
EV5.7.1 A circuit that ensures that the voltage at the vehicle side of the AIRs is pre-charged to at least 95 % of the actual TS accumulator voltage before closing the second AIR must be implemented. Therefore the intermediate circuit voltage must be measured.
EV5.7.2 The pre-charge circuit must use a mechanical, normally open type relay. All pre-charge current must pass through this relay.
EV5.8 Accumulator Management System
EV5.8.1 Each TS accumulator must be monitored by an AMS whenever the LVS is active, or the accumulator is connected to a charger.
EV5.8.2 Every TSAC must contain its full AMS including its own and AMS exclusive SDC power stage, see EV 6.1
EV5.8.3 The AMS must continuously measure
 All cell voltages,
 The TS current,
 The temperature of thermally critical cells,
 For lithium based cells: the temperature of at least 30 % of the cells equally distributed within the TSAC(s).
EV5.8.4 Cell temperature must be measured at the negative terminal of the respective cell and the sensor used must be in direct contact with the electrically exposed negative terminal or less than 10mm along the high current path away from the terminal in direct contact with the respective busbar. It is acceptable to monitor multiple cells with one sensor if this requirement is met for all cells sensed by the sensor.
EV5.8.5 The maximum cell temperature is 60°C or the limit stated in the cell data sheet, whichever is lower.
EV5.8.6 An independent cell temperature monitoring device may be provided by the officials during accumulator inspection and must be installed. The device must be placed on the warmest negative cell terminal of the TSAC and in
direct contact with the terminal or less then 30mm away from it on the busbar.
EV5.8.7 The AMS must switch off the TS via the shutdown circuit, if critical voltage, temperature or current values according to the cell manufacturer’s datasheet or these rules persistently occurs for more than:
 500ms for voltage and current values,
 1s for temperature values.
The accuracy, noise and sample rate of the measurement must be taken into account.
EV5.8.8 AMS cell voltage measurement inputs, temperature measurement inputs and supply voltage of decentralized AMS slaves may be rated below the maximum TS voltage if the team can demonstrate that the chosen rating is appropriate for the situation.EV9
EV5.8.9 A red indicator light in the cockpit that is easily visible from inside and outside the cockpit even in bright sunlight and clearly marked with the lettering “AMS” must light up if the AMS opens the shutdown circuit. It must stay illuminated until the error state has been manually reset, see EV6.1.6. Signals controlling this indicator are SCS, see T11.9.
EV5.8.10 AMS signals are System Critical Signals, see T11.9. The loss of any measurement connection, see EV5.8.3, must result in an opened Shutdown Circuit.
EV5.8.11 It must be possible to individually disconnect the current sensor, one temperature sensor and one cell voltage measurement wire during technical inspection, if any wire used.
EV5.8.12 The AMS must be able to read and display all measured values according to EV5.8.2, including a single overview, e.g. by connecting a laptop to the AMS. This may be requested by officials anywhere, at any time, e.g. within a Dynamic Area.